Let's start with authentication and
authorization.
In this first lesson,
you will learn about how user and
service accounts work in Kubernetes.
You'll then learn about how to create and
manage those accounts in GKE.
In Kubernetes,
there are two main types of users.
Normal users and
Kubernetes service accounts.
Be careful here,
both Google Cloud platform and
Kubernetes have an entity called a service
account but they're not the same.
I'll explain the difference in a minute.
For now, keep in mind that your day
to day focus will be on normal users.
Normal users are managed
outside of Kubernetes,
that is Kubernetes relies on
external identity services.
That's through both in Kubernetes
clusters that you built yourself,
as well as in those GKE manages for you.
When you use Kubernetes clusters in GKA,
you'll define most user accounts
through Google's identity service.
Informally that encompasses the consumer
Google accounts that you're familiar with,
plus accounts in G Suite domains.
If you don't have a G Suite domain you
should get a Google Cloud identity domain
for your business, which is at no
additional charge in most circumstances.
A cloud at any domain gives you much
more organizational control than
using consumer Google accounts for
all of your employees.
All these kinds of accounts together
make up Google Cloud Identity.
We use the word member to refer to
each individual identity defined by
the service.
It's a flexible service.
It lets you define user
identities directly, or
mirror them from your existing directory
service such as Active Directory.
It also lets you group users,
which turns out to be the key part
of an important best practice.
I'll tell you about later in this module.
GCP is a clouds identity and
access management service or
Cloud IAM is where buying permission
in you GCP project to members.
And then you need tell Kubernetes about
the members that you want to give
permission inside your clusters to.
Any cloud and any member can be configure
as normal user GKE Kubernetes clusters.
In contrast to normal users,
Kubernetes service account
are accounts manages by Kubernetes.
Kubernetes service accounts provide
an identity for processes in a pod and
are used to interact with
the Kubernetes cluster.
These are different from
GCP service accounts.
Those are managed by Google Cloud
identity, not Kubernetes and you use them
when you want GCP resources to have an
identity that's tied to an application or
virtual machine not a human being.
You can even configure GCP service
accounts as a normal Kubernetes user if
that proven necessary.
In Kubernetes, every name space has
a default Kubernetes service account.
When processes in containers within a pod
communicate with the cube API server,
they identify themselves as
a Kubernetes service account.
If you're security sensitive,
you won't be worried about these
Kubernetes service accounts.
What if an attacker compromised
a container or a pod?
Could they grab service
account credentials and
then use them in further attacks?
Yes, they could.
In Kubernetes 1.8 and higher,
thanks to the implementation of RBAC,
service accounts have no default
permissions or access tokens.
GKE only supports the last the three
minor versions of Kubernetes.
So if you're running on GKE,
you already have this enabled.
You don't have to worry about
this potential problem.
After an account is authenticated, for
example, a user authenticating via Cloud
identity, there are two main ways to
authorize what that account can do.
One, Cloud Identity and
Access Management or Cloud IAM.
And two, Kubernetes role-based
access control or RBAC.
In fact, you need both controls.
Cloud IAM is the access control system for
managing GCP resources.
It lets you grant permissions to users
to perform operations at the project and
cluster levels.
In other words,
outside your Kubernetes clusters.
On the other hand, Kubernetes RBAC, gives
you access control inside your Kubernetes
clusters at the cluster level and
the namespace level.
It lets you create fine tune rules in
granular access to resources within
the cluster.
So you will use Cloud IAM
to define who can view or
change the configuration
of your GKE clusters.
And you'll use Cloud RBAC
to define who can view or
change Kubernetes objects
inside those cluster.
With both of these methods,
it's a best a practice to exercise
the principle of least privilege.
Each person who has access to your cluster
should have the minimum set of permissions
to do their job.
In Kubernetes, the API server listens for
remote requests using HTTPS on port 443.
Each request must be authenticated
before it's acted upon.
The API server can perform this
authentication using various methods.
GKE supports as authentication methods,
OpenID connect tokens,
x509 client certs and basic
authentication using static passwords.
OpenID connect is a simple identity
layer on top of the OAuth 2.0 protocol.
It lets clients verify the identity of
an end user by crewing an authorization
server.
The clients can also get basic
profile information about the end user
in interruptible way.
x509 client certificates and
static passwords present a wider
surface of attack than OpenID.
Unless your application is using
this methods of authentication,
you should disable them and use
the OpenID authentication method instead.
In GKE, both x509 and static password
authentication are disabled by default,
in clusters created with
Kubernetes 1.12 and later.
This helps improve the default
security configuration.